In the previous video, we have done configuring
telnet in the router.
But if we see here, we only need to type password
when remote the router using telnet.
We don’t need to use username.
Why?
This is because, when we configure telnet,
we use command login like this.
So remember that if we use command login like
this, we will only need to type password when
remote the cisco devices using telnet.
We don’t need a username.
The question is, how we can configure so when
we remote the route using telnet,
we will need to type username and password?
Okay let’s just try it.
The first thing that we need to do is, create
a username and password.
The command is username and the the user,
let’s say I create user1, then secret,
and the password, let’s say the password is
password1.
So the username is user1 and the password
is password1.
Next let’s go to line vty again, and then
let’s type login local.
This command means that if we want to remote
the router using telnet,
we need to type username and password.
In this case the username will be user1 and
the password is password1,
Now let’s try from the pc, here open telnet
or ssh client.
Choose telnet, type the router Ip address
and then connect.
Okay here we can see that now we need to type
username, the username is user1,
and then here we need to type the password.
The password is password1.
Okay here we are successfully remote the router
using telnet.
And now we need to type username and password
when remote the router using telnet.
May be some of you have a question, how If
we want to have not just 1 user, is that possible?
Yes absolutely, let’s try it.
Here let’s create new user name, let’s
say the user is user2 and the password is
password2.
To verify it, we can use do show run.
Okay here we can see that now we have 2 user, which is user1 and user2.
Now let’s try to login using telnet from
other client.
Open telnet or ssh client, here choose telnet,
put the ip address of the router,
and then connect, okay here we can type the username,
let’s say we will use user2,
and then the password is password2.
Okay here we can see that now we are success
to login using user2.
Okay I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.